IPv4
-----
	Internet Protocol version 4. IPv4, which we often denote as just IP, has been the
	workhorse protocol of the IP suite since the early 1980s. It uses 32-bit addresses
	IPv4 provides packet delivery service for TCP, UDP, SCTP, ICMP, and	IGMP.

IPv6
----
	Internet Protocol version 6. IPv6 was designed in the mid-1990s as a replacement
	for IPv4. The major change is a larger address comprising 128 bits to
	deal with the explosive growth of the Internet in the 1990s. IPv6 provides packet
	delivery service for TCP, UDP, SCTP, and ICMPv6.

TCP
----
	Transmission Control Protocol . TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that provides a
	reliable, full-duplex byte stream to its users. TCP sockets are an example of stream
	sockets. TCP takes care of details such as acknowledgments, timeouts, retransmissions and the like. 
	Most Internet application programs use TCP. Notice that TCP can use Volume either IPv4 or IPv6

UDP
----
	User Datagram Protocol. UDP is a connectionless protocol, and UDP sockets are an
	example of datagram sockets. There is no guarantee that UDP datagrams ever
	reach their intended destination. As with TCP, UDP can use either IPv4 or IPv6.

SCTP
----
	Stream Control Transmission Protocol. SCTP is a connection-oriented protocol that provides 
	a reliable full duples association the word "association" is used when 
	referring to a connection in SCTP because SCTP is multihomed, involving a set of IP
	addresses and a single port for each side of an association. SCTP provides a
	message service, which maintains record boundaries. As with TCP and UDP, SCTP
	can use either IPv4 or IPv6, but it can also use both IPv4 and IPv6 simultaneously
	on the same association.

ICMP
-----
	Internet Control Message Protocol. ICMP handles error and control information
	between routers and hosts. These messages are normally generated by and
	processed by the TCP/IP networking software itself, not user processes, although we
	show the ping and traceroute programs, which use ICMP. We sometimes refer to
	this protocol as ICMPv4 to distinguish it from ICMPv6.

IGMP
----
	Internet Group Management Protocol. IGMP is used with multicasting which is optional with IPv4.

ARP 
----
	Address Resulation Protocol. ARP maps an IPv4 address systems into a hardware address.
	ARP is normally used on broadcast networks such as 
	Ethernet, token ring, and FDDI, and is not needed on point-to-point networks.

RARP
----
	Reverse Address Resolution Protocol. RARP maps a hardware address into an IPv4
	address.It is sometimes used when a diskless node is booting.

BPF
----
	BSD packet filter. This interface provides access to the datalink layer. It is normally
	found on Brekeley-derived kernels.

DLPI
----
	Datalink Provider Interface. This interface also provides access to the datalink layer.
	It is normally provided with SVR4.



